Do you want to be a better communicator?
Do you want to be physically and mentally healthier?
Do you want to perform better in whatever you do in life?

If you answered ‘yes’
to these questions, then you might need more human touch.
That’s right: touch.
It’s the first language we learn as babies.
And it’s one of the best ways to communicate our emotions.
There are three main benefits that come from human touch.
The first is better communication.
We can communicate better when we touch others.
This is especially true if you are speaking in a foreign language.
This could be a handshake, a high five, a hand on the shoulder, a hug, or a touch on the arm;
whatever is appropriate for the situation.
Touch builds trust, and so it can make a relationship much stronger and more satisfying.
The second is better health.
Human touch reduces stress and blood pressure almost immediately.
And we all know that stress is one of the main causes of sickness and disease.
So if you are feeling anxious or depressed or simply stressed out, being touched by another person is one of the best cures.
Finally there is better performance.
Interestingly, touch can actually improve your performance in whatever you do.
Scientists in California studied the touch habits amongst professional NBA basketball teams.
They found that the most successful teams were the ones that touched each other the most during the game: hugs, high fives, bumps, and so on.
Interesting, huh?
Here are two more examples of touch improving performance:
Students who received a touch on the back or arm from a teacher were twice as likely to volunteer in class than those who were not touchedPatients reported visits from a doctor were twice as long when they were touched by that doctor, than patients who were not touched. But the length of the doctor’s visit was the same in both groups.
Students who received a touch on the back or arm from a teacher were twice as likely to volunteer in class than those who were not touched
Patients reported visits from a doctor were twice as long when they were touched by that doctor, than patients who were not touched. But the length of the doctor’s visit was the same in both groups.
In sum, touch is a powerful way to improve the quality of your life. And as a language speaker, how can touch help you to become a better communicator? Do you think human touch can help you perform better when speaking English?
In sum, touch is a powerful way to improve the quality of your life.
And as a language speaker, how can touch help you to become a better communicator?
Do you think human touch can help you perform better when speaking English?
