What’s the secret to success in life?
Some people think that delayed gratification is the secret to success.
Delayed gratification means to give up pleasure now to get a greater reward in the future.
Here is an easy example:
You stop yourself from eating junk food during the winter, so when summer comes, you will look good at the beach.
In 1972 there was an experiment.
It tested children’s ability to delay gratification.
In this experiment a researcher offered a small child a choice.
The child could have one marshmallow now or 2 marshmallows if the child could wait for 15 minutes.
The researcher left the child alone in the room with one marshmallow on a tray.
The child was filmed with a secret video camera.
Most of the children couldn’t wait and soon ate the marshmallow.
However, about 30% were able to delay gratification and get the second marshmallow.
Interestingly, the children were tested for the next 30 years and guess what?
The ones who could wait for the second marshmallow were more successful later in life!
They got higher test scores in school.
They had fewer problems with drugs.
They were much more likely to go to college.
They had lower body fat.
And they made more money as adults.
Delayed gratification is a type of self-control.
We can all benefit from it.
And we can use it to be successful.
The children in this experiment used a lot of techniques to delay gratification and control themselves.
You can see how they act in the video below.
Some turn around so they don’t see the tray and the marshmallow.
Some cover their eyes so they can’t see the marshmallow.
Some kick the desk.
Some pull their hair.
Others stroke the marshmallow as if it were a doll.
These are all techniques to control their focus.
They are childish techniques, but they work.
These children were lucky to develop self-control from a young age.
But, many people think that adults can also develop self-control through practice.
With that self-control they become more successful and reach their goals.
What about you?
How much self-control do you have?
What techniques do you use to delay gratification now to get greater rewards later?
Let us know what you think in the comments.
